docs/src/wallet-guide/web-wallets.md, before:

---
title: Web Wallets
---

## Phantom

[Phantom](https://phantom.app/) is a friendly non-custodial, browser
extension, Solana wallet that makes it safe & easy for you to store, send,
receive, collect, and swap tokens.

- Use Solana dapps
- Beautiful NFT support
- Ledger hardware wallet support

Available for Chrome, Brave, Firefox, Vivaldi, and Edge

## SolFlare

[SolFlare.com](https://solflare.com/) is a community-created non-custodial
web wallet that was built specifically for Solana. SolFlare supports the creation
and management of stake accounts, and gives users the ability to send and receive
any SPL Token.

Check out our [guide for using SolFlare](solflare.md).

## Sollet

[sollet.io](https://www.sollet.io/) is a non-custodial web wallet created by the
[Project Serum](https://projectserum.com/) team. sollet.io can be used to send
and receive SOL and any SPL Token.

## MathWallet

[MathWallet](https://mathwallet.org/) supports wallet
addresses for sending and receiving SOL and SPL Tokens through its
browser extension and web wallet interface.

_Note: The MathWallet iOS and Android app do not yet support SOL and SPL Tokens_

## BitKeep
[BitKeep](https://bitkeep.com) is an digital currency wallet and can send and receive SOL/SPL tokens.
BitKeep also support Solana DApps with BitKeep Browser and BitKeep Chrome.

Commit message:

Docs: Solflare web/app updates (#21540)
* Update Solflare description

* Add Solflare to mobile wallets

* Sort mobile wallets alphabetically

* Sort web wollets alphabetically

* Update docs/src/wallet-guide/apps.md

* Update docs/src/wallet-guide/apps.md

* Update docs/src/wallet-guide/web-wallets.md

* Update docs/src/wallet-guide/web-wallets.md

* Update docs/src/wallet-guide/apps.md

Co-authored-by: Justin Starry <justin.m.starry@gmail.com>

docs/src/wallet-guide/web-wallets.md, after:

---
title: Web Wallets
---

## BitKeep

[BitKeep](https://bitkeep.com) is an digital currency wallet and can send and receive SOL/SPL tokens.
BitKeep also support Solana DApps with BitKeep Browser and BitKeep Chrome.

## MathWallet

[MathWallet](https://mathwallet.org/) supports wallet
addresses for sending and receiving SOL and SPL Tokens through its
browser extension and web wallet interface.

Note: The MathWallet iOS and Android app do not yet support SOL and SPL Tokens_

## Phantom

[Phantom](https://phantom.app/) is a friendly non-custodial, browser
extension, Solana wallet that makes it safe & easy for you to store, send,
receive, collect, and swap tokens.

- Use Solana dapps
- Beautiful NFT support
- Ledger hardware wallet support

Available for Chrome, Brave, Firefox, Vivaldi, and Edge

## Solflare

[Solflare](https://solflare.com/) is a non-custodial web wallet created by the
[Solrise Finance](https://solrise.finance) team that was built specifically for Solana.
Solflare is accessible and easy to use but also has a very comprehensive set of features, including:

- The ability to connect your wallet to almost any Solana Dapp
- Transaction simulations, which show the balance changes expected from a transaction and protect against malicious dapps
- Deep staking support with the ability to create and manage all your staking accounts
- Comprehensive NFT functionality, including the ability to send, receive and preview NFTs from a Metaplex-compatible NFT gallery. Support is provided for image, video, audio, and 3d/VR NFTs.
- An in wallet swap for SPL tokens
- Compatibility with the Ledger hardware wallet

Solflare is available on web, as a browser extension, and as a mobile app for both Android and iOS.
The extension is available on Chrome, Brave, Firefox, Opera, and Edge.

Check out our [guide for using SolFlare](solflare.md).

## Sollet

[sollet.io](https://www.sollet.io/) is a non-custodial web wallet created by the
[Project Serum](https://projectserum.com/) team. sollet.io can be used to send
and receive SOL and any SPL Token.
